# EpiProfile2.0_Family
EpiProfile 2.0: A Computational Platform for Processing Epi-Proteomics Mass Spectrometry Data

Epigenetics has become a fundamental scientific discipline with various implications for biology and medicine. Epigenetic marks, mostly DNA methylation and histone post-translational modifications (PTMs), play important roles in chromatin structure and function. Accurate quantification of these marks is an ongoing challenge due to the variety of modifications and their wide dynamic range of abundance. Here, we present EpiProfile 2.0, an extended version of our 2015 software (v1.0) for the enhanced quantification of histone peptides based on liquid chromatography – tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis. EpiProfile 2.0 is now optimized for data-independent acquisition through the use of precursor and fragment extracted ion chromatography to accurately determine the chromatographic profile and to discriminate isobaric forms of peptides. In addition, the software uses an intelligent retention time prediction trained on the analyzed samples to enable accurate peak detection. EpiProfile 2.0 supports histone analysis for different methods of sample preparations (e.g. label-free or isotopic labeling), different organisms, known sequence mutations in diseases, different derivatization strategies, and unusual PTMs (such as acyl-derived modifications). In summary, EpiProfile 2.0 is a universal and accurate platform for the quantification of epigenetic marks via LC-MS/MS. Being the first software of its kind we anticipate that EpiProfile 2.0 will play a fundamental role in epigenetic studies relevant to biology and translational medicine.
